Coen

What I learned the most about during this course is probably APIs. My knowledge about this subject was basically zero. I learned some useful background information about APIs, the Internet and the World Wide Web during the lectures. I learned to make API calls through XML and JSON, using PHP. I gained knowledge about how APIs are usually built and how to use them properly. I had some experience with building websites already, when I stared with Web Technology. PHP, JavaScript, jQuery, AJAX, CSS and HTML are languages I had some experience with, already. However, also in the field of these languages, I gained quite some skills. Especially about nice functions, for example css(), setTimeOut() and on() in jQuery and urlencode() in PHP. I also learned MySQLi, after recommendation of a teammate. I also learned how to use GitHub, which turns out to be a very easy way to collaborate on a project with several people.

I would think that I am the person in the group who spent the most time on this project. At least, I had the largest contribution to it, according to https://github.com/WebTech7/RestaurantWebApp/graphs/contributors. The course has cost me more time than most other courses. I liked to follow this course and work on its projects.

I did encounter some problems along the way. The slow hosting of the website was one of the largest. It turned out that the main cause of this problem, was the MySQL database. First the database was hosted on db4free. Now it is hosted on the same server as the website. This improved the speed of the application quite a lot. It is still not the fastest website on the Internet, but that would be caused by a few problems that are not in our power to change. The pages that take long to load use two to three APIs and our own database at the same time. Thereafter, it combines the data from these APIs, which all adds up some processing time. We also uploaded the application to Heroku, but this was just as fast as our current host (hostinger.nl). Most other problems I can think of were coding problems and easily solved with a quick search on the Internet.

I have some ways to improve the course. I think some of the lectures, especially the ones in the beginning, did not have very much to do with the course, since we were not tested on the vast majority of these lectures. It is a good thing to give some background and side information, but this was maybe a bit too much. I can imagine that the tutorials on Friday and Tuesday were useful for people who had no knowledge about it, but when you already have a bit of knowledge about it, it is much too basic. It could be an idea to give some more advanced tutorials, as well. Also, I personally did not consider the lectures on Tuesday, the 3rd and 4th hour, where students were able to work on their assignments, useful, since it was always faster to look up the question on the Internet than waiting for the teachers to be done with other person’s questions. So might be a good idea to be there with more teachers. Despite these things, overall, I considered the course good and challenging enough.
